Frontend Developer Challenge Readme

For this challenge, the first area I identified as being a problem was the summary screen's current design. The design is old and dated, and overwhelms the user with information. My personal feeling, was that users want small bites of information at first glance, instead of having to comb through masses of information. That is what I tried to incorporate into my design. Further, the timeline design is also dated, and I wanted to rather than give a static timeline effect, provide the user with an interface where they can filter according to the event type that occurred on the policy, or the year they are looking for information in. I aimed for a clear, to the point design where a user can easily locate additional information from linked menus, or just see the required information on the screen.

The colours that I represented on the screen include navy, cobalt and white, which represents class and trustworthiness. I also used gray which represents practicality and straightforwardness as well as sophistication and trust. 

For the timeline substitution (labelled as policy movements on my interface) I grouped the timeline events according to colours. I grouped claims in green, workflow events in orange etc. I often find that users who are not likely to enjoy reading enjoy a visually aesthetic design where their eyes are drawn by similar colours. I tried to get this effect across without overwhelming the user with colour. The reason why I built the timeline component in this fashion is so that the user can narrow down specifically which event they are looking for, or to be able to see all the movements that occurred on a policy in a specific year. I felt this was serving a double purpose as the rich history on a claim could be shown without overwhelming the user with endless data and scrolling, but they could also narrow down a specific event type regardless of the year, to at a glance be able to see how many payments have bee received on a policy for example. For further areas of development, I would like to link each tile in the timeline component to its relevant additional screen. I embedded the relevant obj into each tile and therefore you could uniquely link each tile to its relevant transaction, status update etc and quickly be able to show all relevant information pertaining to that obj.